---
layout: post
title: Rebooting AI
category: books
tags: [books]
book_type: Hardcover
authors: Gary Marcus, Ernest Davis
---

<img src="http://books.google.com/books/content?id=O8muDwAAQBAJ&printsec=frontcover&img=1&zoom=1&edge=curl&source=gbs_api"/>

**Rebooting AI** by Gary Marcus, Ernest Davis

<sup>isbn-13: 9781524748258</sup>

*Hardcover*

"Two leaders in the field offer a compelling analysis of the current state
of the art and reveal the steps we must take to achieve a truly robust
artificial intelligence. Despite the hype surrounding AI, creating an
intelligence that rivals or exceeds human levels is far more complicated
than we have been led to believe. Professors Gary Marcus and Ernest Davis
have spent their careers at the forefront of AI research and have witnessed
some of the greatest milestones in the field, but they argue that a
computer beating a human in Jeopardy! does not signal that we are on the
doorstep of fully autonomous cars or superintelligent machines. The
achievements in the field thus far have occurred in closed systems with
fixed sets of rules, and these approaches are too narrow to achieve genuine
intelligence. The real world, in contrast, is wildly complex and open-
ended. How can we bridge this gap? What will the consequences be when we
do? Taking inspiration from the human mind, Marcus and Davis explain what
we need to advance AI to the next level, and suggest that if we are wise
along the way, we won't need to worry about a future of machine overlords.
If we focus on endowing machines with common sense and deep understanding,
rather than simply focusing on statistical analysis and gathering ever
larger collections of data, we will be able to create an AI we can trust--
in our homes, our cars, and our doctors' offices. Rebooting AI provides a
lucid, clear-eyed assessment of the current science and offers an inspiring
vision of how a new generation of AI can make our lives better."
