---
layout: post
title: Thinking in systems - a primer
category: books
tags: [books]
book_type: Kindle
authors: Donella H. Meadows
---

<img src="http://books.google.com/books/content?id=CpbLAgAAQBAJ&printsec=frontcover&img=1&zoom=1&edge=curl&source=gbs_api"/>

**Thinking in systems: a primer** by Donella H. Meadows

<sup>isbn-13: 9781603580557</sup>

*Kindle*

"In the years following her role as the lead author of the international
bestseller, Limits to Growth—the first book to show the consequences of
unchecked growth on a finite planet— Donella Meadows remained a pioneer of
environmental and social analysis until her untimely death in 2001.
Meadows' newly released manuscript, Thinking in Systems, is a concise and
crucial book offering insight for problem solving on scales ranging from
the personal to the global. Edited by the Sustainability Institute's Diana
Wright, this essential primer brings systems thinking out of the realm of
computers and equations and into the tangible world, showing readers how to
develop the systems-thinking skills that thought leaders across the globe
consider critical for 21st-century life. Some of the biggest problems
facing the world—war, hunger, poverty, and environmental degradation—are
essentially system failures. They cannot be solved by fixing one piece in
isolation from the others, because even seemingly minor details have
enormous power to undermine the best efforts of too-narrow thinking. While
readers will learn the conceptual tools and methods of systems thinking,
the heart of the book is grander than methodology. Donella Meadows was
known as much for nurturing positive outcomes as she was for delving into
the science behind global dilemmas. She reminds readers to pay attention to
what is important, not just what is quantifiable, to stay humble, and to
stay a learner. In a world growing ever more complicated, crowded, and
interdependent, Thinking in Systems helps readers avoid confusion and
helplessness, the first step toward finding proactive and effective
solutions."
