---
layout: post
title: Cryptonomicon
category: books
tags: [books]
book_type: Audible
authors: Neal Stephenson
---

<img src="https://books.google.com/books/content?id=HLe8QgAACAAJ&printsec=frontcover&img=1&zoom=1&source=gbs_api"/>

**Cryptonomicon** by Neal Stephenson

<sup>isbn-13: 9780060512804</sup>

*Audible*

"With this extraordinary first volume in what promises to be an epoch-making
masterpiece, Neal Stephenson hacks into the secret histories of nations and
the private obsessions of men, decrypting with dazzling virtuosity the
forces that shaped this century. In 1942, Lawrence Pritchard Waterhouse -
mathematical genius and young Captain in the U.S. Navy - is assigned to
detachment 2702. It is an outfit so secret that only a handful of people
know it exists, and some of those people have names like Churchill and
Roosevelt. The mission of Watrehouse and Detatchment 2702-commanded by
Marine Raider Bobby Shaftoe-is to keep the Nazis ignorant of the fact that
Allied Intelligence has cracked the enemy's fabled Enigma code. It is a
game, a cryptographic chess match between Waterhouse and his German
counterpart, translated into action by the gung-ho Shaftoe and his forces.
Fast-forward to the present, where Waterhouse's crypto-hacker grandson,
Randy, is attempting to create a "data haven" in Southeast Asia - a place
where encrypted data can be stored and exchanged free of repression and
scrutiny. As governments and multinationals attack the endeavor, Randy
joins forces with Shaftoe's tough-as-nails grandaughter, Amy, to secretly
salvage a sunken Nazi sumarine that holds the key to keeping the dream of a
data haven afloat. But soon their scheme brings to light a massive
conspiracy with its roots in Detachment 2702 linked to an unbreakable Nazi
code called Arethusa. And it will represent the path to unimaginable riches
and a future of personal and digital liberty...or to universal
totalitarianism reborn. A breathtaking tour de force, and Neal Stephenson's
most accomplished and affecting work to date, CRYPTONOMICON is profound and
prophetic, hypnotic and hyper-driven, as it leaps forward and back between
World War II and the World Wide Web, hinting all the while at a dark day-
after-tomorrow. It is a work of great art, thought, and creative daring;
the product of a truly icon"
