---
layout: post
title: Talking to Strangers
category: books
tags: [books]
book_type: Audible
authors: Malcolm Gladwell
---

<img src="http://books.google.com/books/content?id=QzbJwQEACAAJ&printsec=frontcover&img=1&zoom=1&source=gbs_api"/>

**Talking to Strangers** by Malcolm Gladwell

<sup>isbn-13: 9780316478526</sup>

*Audible*

"Malcolm Gladwell, host of the podcast Revisionist History and #1
bestselling author of The Tipping Point, Blink, Outliers, David and
Goliath, and What the Dog Saw, offers a powerful examination of our
interactions with strangers---and why they often go wrong. How did Fidel
Castro fool the CIA for a generation? Why did Neville Chamberlain think he
could trust Adolf Hitler? Why are campus sexual assaults on the rise? Do
television sitcoms teach us something about the way we relate to each other
that isn't true? Talking to Strangers is a classically Gladwellian
intellectual adventure, a challenging and controversial excursion through
history, psychology, and scandals taken straight from the news. He revisits
the deceptions of Bernie Madoff, the trial of Amanda Knox, the suicide of
Sylvia Plath, the Jerry Sandusky pedophilia scandal at Penn State
University, and the death of Sandra Bland---throwing our understanding of
these and other stories into doubt. Something is very wrong, Gladwell
argues, with the tools and strategies we use to make sense of people we
don't know. And because we don't know how to talk to strangers, we are
inviting conflict and misunderstanding in ways that have a profound effect
on our lives and our world. In his first book since his #1 bestseller,
David and Goliath, Malcolm Gladwell has written a gripping guidebook for
troubled times."