---
layout: post
title: The Undoing Project
category: books
tags: [books]
book_type: Audible
authors: Michael Lewis
---

<img src="http://books.google.com/books/content?id=loK0AQAACAAJ&printsec=frontcover&img=1&zoom=1&source=gbs_api"/>

**The Undoing Project** by Michael Lewis

<sup>isbn-13: 9780393354775</sup>

*Audible*

"Forty years ago, Israeli psychologists Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tversky
wrote a series of breathtakingly original studies undoing our assumptions
about the decision-making process. Their papers showed the ways in which
the human mind erred, systematically, when forced to make judgments in
uncertain situations. Their work created the field of behavioral economics,
revolutionized Big Data studies, advanced evidence-based medicine, led to a
new approach to government regulation, and made much of Michael Lewis's own
work possible. Kahneman and Tversky are more responsible than anybody for
the powerful trend to mistrust human intuition and defer to algorithms. The
Undoing Project is about a compelling collaboration between two men who
have the dimensions of great literary figures. They became heroes in the
university and on the battlefield--both had important careers in the
Israeli military--and their research was deeply linked to their
extraordinary life experiences. Amos Tversky was a brilliant, self-
confident warrior and extrovert, the center of rapt attention in any room;
Kahneman, a fugitive from the Nazis in his childhood, was an introvert
whose questing self-doubt was the seedbed of his ideas. They became one of
the greatest partnerships in the history of science, working together so
closely that they couldn't remember whose brain originated which ideas, or
who should claim credit. They flipped a coin to decide the lead authorship
on the first paper they wrote, and simply alternated thereafter. This story
about the workings of the human mind is explored through the personalities
of two fascinating individuals so fundamentally different from each other
that they seem unlikely friends or colleagues. In the process they may well
have changed, for good, mankind's view of its own mind."